You can be louder than that if you want to, and now, the mayor of the city of New York.
The mayor of Harmontown, Den Harbour!
Thank you.
You're very, very kind.
You know, it's our new home. If you're here for the third time, you see there's an evolution taking place. You should be honored to be part of it. You should be honored to be waiting for things. Why is he still looking at his phone if there's an evolution? Why can't he? Because the future hasn't happened. I don't have a fucking...
You should put your phone notes on the screen behind you.
Well, the people can just see... Exactly. Okay.
It'll speed things up.
What have I done?
Yeah.
I mean, this isn't really what I... Okay.
It's a bit of a nature video right now.
I mean, I don't even know... You don't even know... Okay. No, this is stupid. Let me just... It doesn't matter, because I'm not going to talk that much, and then I'm going to bring up...
Because we have a show chock full of entertainment, and you guys are so lucky to be here, and you're... Yeah, you're plotting your own good fortune.
That's a great thing to apply.
That's what people should apply. Like, I mean, gone are the days when you would applaud the entertainment itself.
Now you just applaud your own privilege and just go, like, we are lucky to be here. I was told that by the fake news.
So here's the thing. All right. Let me just try to blow through some stuff that deserves more than being blown through.
I'm drunk. I came up drunk. I usually get drunk during the show.
Because I was with my friend Joel Hodgson, who was celebrating with his Kickstarter supporters, the Mystery Science Theater accomplishment that happened on Kickstarter.
So many funny people attached.
And I was dragged out and whored off to no offense to whores. But I had a great time, because you're just surrounded with people.
It's like, what? I got to hold court. That's what they call it. I held court.
Talking to people that have no choice but to stop talking when I interrupt them.
Well, I'm interested in this video game. Yeah, here's the thing about video games. Okay, dance talking. I thought this game is better than this one.
Well, you're a fat, rich windbag, so I guess that's true.
But we talked about so much stuff that I feel like I don't really have much show in me.
So I think we'll try to get it.
Yeah, here we go.
So we weren't here last week, because I went on vacation. It was my girlfriend's birthday. I went to Tulum, Mexico, the most amazing place in the world.
It doesn't need my help. It's already beautiful. It's monetized. It's fine. But it's gorgeous there.
And I got high on the beach, and Cody went to get a drink, and here's what happened to me. Here's why I'm now going to be a perfect person.
First of all, it all starts with Trump, because we're all feeling the same thing, which is that we're all now living in a new space where we're like, no wrong answers.
Which is not just a glib thing to say. It's true that we were living in a world where we were wondering if we were drinking too much coffee, or if we were saving enough for our retirement, or if our mortgage payments meant this, or should I have kids, or should I have kids?
What's my favorite color? And then a rapist Nazi became president, and he did it by tweeting horrible things. He didn't do it by tricking anyone.
He just went like, I'm a rapist Nazi, and everyone went, well, sometimes that's better than a woman. Yay!
And our nightmare just marched forward. And all of the walls came down, and I'm not saying it's a good thing, and I'm not saying we needed that to happen,
but I am saying that at least we can find the positivity in that when it's like, when your paradigm shatters, you are on the verge of new epiphanies that don't have to do with how much coffee you're drinking.
You have no choice now, but to get up every morning and think about God, and whether he exists, whether he's a she, you're out of shit, you're an idiot if you're thinking about coffee.
There's a fucking Nazi in the White House. So anyways, is he affecting it now? Is he affecting the thing? No, he's not. He has a problem.
He can't speak. He's not a professional entertainer. He gets wound up.
I was on a daybed overlooking the beautiful Tulum ocean. I got high, Cody went to go get drinks, and I started doing this thing that I do when I'm happy, which is I go back over my life and I torture myself.
I don't think this is just a Midwest thing, but there's such a fine line between gratitude and I'm about to get cancer, because gratitude means I have it so good.
Oh, I should really appreciate how good I have it. To me, being from Wisconsin, that is identical to saying I'm about to get cancer.
And it's also identical to saying, oh, I don't deserve this because I've been such a piece of shit. And so I'm just sitting there looking over the ocean and I'm going back over my life because my girlfriend's gone and I can't hold her hand anymore and I can't be distracted by these things that slow me down as my therapist says,
run on your engine, not on the pistons. So I start running on the pistons, and I'm going back over my life. And I'm going, well, why did Sarah Silverman fire you?
Well, because you're a fucking idiot because you did this. Why did you do that with Chevy Chase? Why did you get fired from community? Why couldn't you just tow the line at Kung Fu Panda?
How many times have we all said that?
Well, for most people, it's code. And so normally that's an exercise of just like, oh, you're out of the moment, you're fucked up, now you were happy, so you went back through your life and now you're torturing yourself.
But I followed through on it and I was like, okay, so there's a version of me that didn't get fired, Season 4 community, there's a version of me that didn't fuck up, that knew better on the Sarah Silverman show. There's a version of me that was like, knew while working on Kung Fu Panda that no one cares about story structure.
They don't know that if a panda is born entitled to win, that that makes him a villain. It doesn't matter. I made different choices. I swiped a laminate at DreamWorks the animation and went to work every day and went, you know your movie's shitty, right?
And they kept going like, well, it's probably gonna be pretty good. And I kept going, these guys don't know what they're talking about.
So anyways, suffice to say, I have regrets. I could have serviced the fans better. Season 4 community, if I hadn't had a fucking meltdown, if I hadn't taken myself so seriously.
So I'm going over all of these decisions every fucking moment, but here's what happens. So I go, okay, so there's that version of me, there's that version of me, there's that version of me.
So that guy's got more money, that guy's working on a better show, that guy transitioned, he's a woman now, you're welcome.
Like whatever, all of the choices I could have made. And I'm like, okay, so all of you guys, what do you want? What are you going for?
One of you has a Tesla, one of you has Spielberg and your Rolodex, there was these things called Rolodexes.
What do all of you want? And then I was like, I think all of them want to be on a beach in Tulum.
And then my girlfriend came in and I was like, holy shit, that's my girlfriend.
And I was like, whoa, and I was like, oh, it is a simulation, it's a simulation, I'm in a cutscene.
Because it's a sandbox open world game, but then there's a braiding point, because it doesn't matter what you do in a good game, you come to a point where the designer said,
yeah, but then you end up at this specific point where you sit on a beach and you go, this is who I am.
And the women know this is sliding doors that I'm describing. Maybe not the women in our audience.
But that's what I'm saying. It was an epiphany, I don't care if you understand it.
There's no way to react to an epiphany that registers to me as I nailed my epiphany.
You were saying that you had so much fucking fun, you had some broke flashbacks to when life was rough.
Well, that's also true. Well, no, here's what you know, I am broke right now, or I was broke for a little bit.
Like my checking balance was so low that I was like feeling middle class.
Ew, disgusting.
Not one, but two of my assistants had to take me aside and warn me that my checking account balance was so low.
Do you know how that feels?
I was just trying to mitigate Steve a little bit.
They don't do that unless they're worried they're not going to get paid.
I was like, why did you take me aside?
They're like, because you were in front of the electronics guy who was like installing shit in your house and he might stop.
But you know, whatever, and then a check came in. Let's not get distracted.
Like, here's the thing. But it's not the thing. I'm tired of saying here's the thing. I don't know the thing.
I, it, like, I, I'm, like, okay.
So, like, like, if you, here's what I realized.
I started going, okay, so let's say Elon Musk is right. And it's an, I know it's not his idea, but that we're a simulation.
So we're playing a game.
Okay, so all games are based on deprivation of something like you spin a kid around.
Oh, they don't know how to stand. Wouldn't it be funny if they pinned a tail on something?
There's no party game where you give the kid a tail and a donkey with a tail slot and you go like, well, good.
So you're, you're not an idiot.
We, we purposely deprive people of things. We put boxes on our heads and we watch each other in turn like flounder around.
So if, if, if, if life is a simulation, like, what if it's a party game? What if we're each taking turns and what if, what if, what if, knock it off?
You piece of shit. You fucking impoverished piece of garbage you.
What did I do wrong to let you in here? See, I, I lost it.
In those moments when you video game, yes, thank you.
When you're sad, when you're in love, when you've been dumped, when you're angry, when you're feeling racist, when you're feeling angry, when you're, when you're too tall, when you're too short, when you're, when you're having these heightened experiences.
If you imagine that it's a bit, how, how can I imagine that my crippling pain is a bit, Dan? My healthcare just got gutted.
Well, okay, I'll get to you in a second.
There are people, if you imagine philosophically, and this is something that even an atheist can imagine without violating your atheism, because it's not an actual religion, it's just a philosophy.
Just imagine a party full of people watching you with a box on your head going, look at them. Look at them go.
Oh shit, he's onto us. He's onto it.
Like when you look into the eyes of your lover and you go like, this is where I, this is, this is it. This is where I'm meant to be.
And then they go like, oh, but they're also not mad at you for blowing it.
Like if you're just jerking off and playing Minecraft for three days, they're, they're not like, he's losing.
Like it's, there's no wrong way to do it. It's like one of those, like it's a party game.
I just wanted to get that out. I don't care. You're too dumb to get it.
That's not true.
It's like Roy and Rick and Morty.
Yeah.
It's exactly like that.
No, I know, I know it's not a new concept or it's not something that we haven't explored already.
The emotional epiphany is just the imagination that like instead of Rick watching you play Roy, what if it was like people you loved?
What if every time I look at Spencer, like either Spencer's an AI that's like designed to pull certain behaviors out of me,
or Spencer is like, represents an octopus Spencer that's like, like part of my species.
But in either case, like I can look at Spencer and go like, I get it.
Like it's just a, we're just fucking around. And then you just, you can hear like a choir of octopus angels going, yay.
I don't know. I give up. I give up.
We have a lot of show. I'm sorry.
Well, you'll figure it out. Don't know.
No.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
No.
Yes.
Oh yeah. You deserve it because you literally went away, came back so happy, you didn't even know what the fuck to talk about.
I had a good vacation.
Yeah.
Don't patronize me.
And that is all right. You ain't got to feel bad about that.
I saw get out.
Awesome.
Yeah.
It was good. It's a pretty good movie.
All right. We got a lot of show solicitors.
It was a really good movie.
We were just talking about it over there while we were waiting to come out.
So I'm all talked out about get out.
But you've already seen it.
Our next guest created Mystery Science Theater 3000.
Joel Hodgson is here.
Hi Joel. Sorry.
Hey y'all.
Okay. Take me up, Dan.
Sorry I took so long.
That's okay. Show me what you're seeing tonight. Let's go.
What? What do you mean?
What's going on in your heart?
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh wait. You just did that.
Yeah, I did.
You did that? Okay.
Yeah. So, I mean, the reason we were together tonight is because you've recently resurrected MST.
Thank you.
And you did it through crowdfunding.
And what is it on Netflix?
What's the...
It's on Netflix. Yeah.
There's 14 new Mystery Science theaters.
And they're all just dumped out there.
You can just watch them.
They're right. Yeah.
They came out like three or four weeks ago.
All right.
I didn't feel like...
I don't think any of my jokes got used.
Yeah.
Reptileberry Cherry Sores is yours.
Absolutely.
I don't like my voice.
I did it like a lot of funny...
I honestly deliberately didn't look at who wrote what, so I didn't want to get into this.
Well, as long as the fans are happy.
I think so.
I meant a lot that you got involved, man.
It got a lot of press.
You were really like...
I don't know who would really know this.
I don't know if you know this.
Like when I moved from Milwaukee to Los Angeles, even before I did, because we met at Comic-Con,
like when I was selling comic books, you were a person that I recognized from television
that Schrab and I, therefore, when we...
You were so nice to us, treated us like equals, and therefore, when we moved to L.A., we had
your number and were hanging out with you, and you were still treating us like equals
and kind of mentoring us because we were from the Midwest moving to this weird city and
you were also from the Midwest and had been there a little longer and were truly...
The stuff that you told us probably definitely helped a lot.
Just the idea of like, everyone out here is a fucking idiot, man.
Wait a minute, you're doing...
You really got to accept that.
You're like, shit, like the secret to happiness is like the day you wake up and you're like,
holy shit, everyone's fucking dumb.
You might be embellishing there, I'm not sure.
Yeah, I remember that lesson.
Well, you guys were adorable, man.
When I met you and Schrab, I just, you know, had to be friends.
You guys were great.
I got just as much from you guys as you got from me.
I want to talk about crowdfunding because you just did this thing and we did crowdfunding
with Anomaly, so we worked with Kickstarter.
There's actually, you have a friend here who, he's more qualified to talk about it.
Yeah.
Could we do a Kickstarter for me to remember his name?
His name is Ivan Asquith.
Let's bring him up.
Before we do, I want to just kind of prep the audience for him.
He has a mole on his forehead that's like the size of a basket.
If you look at it, he flips out.
It's not fun.
That's why he got into Kickstarter.
But Ivan has so much to do with the success of our Kickstarter.
I worked with him every day on it and he really helped me so much in understanding how to
work with a, you know, we had 50,000 backers and we gave them updates almost on a weekly
level and he was, we collaborated together and how to talk to them and how to keep them
abreast of what we were working on with MST and he's just probably, he's writing the book
on how to do this.
He's an expert on it.
And he's, aside from doing our Kickstarter campaign, he's responsible for all the other
top Kickstarter campaigns like Veronica Mars and Reading Rainbow and Super Troopers 2.
So he's really an expert at it.
So it's Ivan Asquith.
You want to come on up, Ivan?
See, I'm doing it Carson style where I move down and then he moves over.
You told them about the mole on my phone.
Yeah, sorry.
It's weird.
Go ahead, just flash it.
Yeah.
I just think it's weird.
There's no mole, you idiots.
I mean, it unavoidably sounds like a weird keynote, like we're at some Silicon Valley company
now, like introducing you because you didn't create Batman or like design the Rainbow and
Reading Rainbow, but you've figured out in an emerging age, you're a piece of shit.
You're a spontaneously evolved person in a new food chain that hasn't had time to become
old, which is like crowdfunding, there's a tightrope here.
We did a Kickstarter with Anomalysa and I'll be the first to admit, we didn't know what
we were doing.
We fucked up in a lot of ways.
You need to update and all this stuff, but how much are you allowed to talk about the
Zach Braf thing, not to throw him under the bus and shit on him, but to talk about him
is like a milestone of crowdfunding where the consciousness had to change.
You know what?
I think it's easier to just get him to talk about his world view, like how he looks at
it rather than using Zach Braf.
Joel's going to take all my questions for me.
Yeah, but I just, I want you to do that and then you can come back around to it if you
want to.
I just, I can come back around to it.
I think it's the Zach Braf thing.
Oh no, okay, yeah, look, look, pretend I never said anything, but if I didn't say anything,
it's not like you just start talking.
You have to be, yeah, something has to be said to you.
He can start talking at the drop of a hat, believe me.
What's that?
He can talk at the drop of a hat.
He's ready to let go.
Let's go ahead and get that started.
This is weird for anybody else.
Just me.
I guess we'll start with Zach Braf and then we'll work our way back around.
No, don't, don't, no, we're going to come around to Zach Braf.
So in like 1960s, Zach Braf was born.
Awesome.
I think we've covered that.
Now let's just see what you do.
Joel's theory is that it's okay for you to just start talking about your world view.
And I'd like you to do that just to prove him wrong.
You'd like me to do it to prove him wrong or right?
Well, no, prove him right.
Oh, right.
Make that your goal.
My speculation is you will prove him wrong.
My world view or my crowd world view?
Just start talking about your world view.
Explain your world view.
That's how all good interviews start.
So in the beginning, there was Dan Harmon.
Is that what I'm supposed to...
That's your world view?
Yeah.
He told me at dinner that he's...
How does that relate to the Zach Braf thing?
Get the Zach Braf thing out of the way because it's really fucking up Dan.
So what was the question?
World view.
Was Zach Braf's world view?
No.
What's your world view?
That's a big question.
It is.
Okay.
Well, then let me...
Joel was wrong.
Is that what you want me to say?
Yes.
Thank you.
Joel was wrong.
I can make money so I can make something.
Nope.
Right.
So explain the new...
What's the nuance that we learned there?
So the...
I think the big misconception on Kickstarter is that people are giving money because they
want to do somebody a favor and it's not.
Usually, if it's going well, people feel like you're doing them a favor by making this thing
possible that they want.
Like, I think...
So I had a conversation with Zach Braf's team when they were in the middle of their
campaign.
I had a much weirder conversation with like Lee's team.
That's interesting.
They're Braf's people.
Yeah.
Well, I...
It was.
We talked about my world view.
Mostly.
So you can ask him what it is if you ever have him on.
No.
I mean, I think the...
I was telling you just before we came up that maybe his fault, maybe not, but Zach
Braf's campaign is kind of like the cautionary tale for people now.
Not just because he was like one of the first people to come on and he came just after Veronica
Mars, which was a weird moment for everybody because Kickstarter's kind of seen as this
space where like people who have no resources can suddenly make a good pitch to everybody
and see if they want to give them some resources.
And instead, Veronica Mars is this thing owned by Warner Brothers who have a decent
number of resources, usually.
And people were like, why the fuck is Kickstarter asking or why is Warner Brothers asking people
to give money for this thing that they could easily fund.
So right after that succeeded, Zach Braf was kind of like next out the gate and the problem
was he didn't have a very good explanation in most people's opinion for why he was asking
for money when it was really clear on like Scrub's fuck you money that he could have
just funded the entire thing himself on one episode salary, or at least that was what
everybody thought.
And it got worse after he actually got the money.
He got what he was looking for.
And then it started getting worse for him because the main argument for why he wanted
money was he wanted creative freedom and people were like, but you have your own money, that
is creative freedom.
And he used everybody else's money, but then as I was telling you, the thing started to
go sour when the first update that he sent everybody, you know, to tell them how much
he appreciated the money that he really needed from them, was on a GoPro video shot on the
back of his jet ski, with like a cool hit indie soundtrack.
I'm not even kidding.
And then the second one was a little better, it was a GoPro from the back of a motorcycle.
Still not kidding.
But you know, and I think the kind of really bad moment for him was that he, I think he
thought of it just like every other project he had gotten funded, he's like, I have the
money now.
Now it's my thing.
I do what I want with it.
And there wasn't necessarily a clear sense that he owed all these people who had given
five.
Basically what you're doing is you're breaking up the five people who normally are paid by
a corporation.
These fat cats, you're breaking them up into possibly hundreds of thousands of people and
that collectively they're now your Weinstein.
You actually work for them and you owe them these updates and you owe them for granted
is like the problem, right?
And I think people don't necessarily, it's misleading to think that people mostly care
about the rewards.
What they mostly care about is not being treated like they're a nuisance to you after they
made this thing possible.
So in his case, the like really bad moment was at Sundance when Wish I Was Here premiered
and not only were his backers not given a heads up that it was going to be premiering, but
I think the New York Times got a photo of one of his backers who had given a couple thousand
dollars standing in front of the theater because they hadn't been able to get a ticket, holding
up a cardboard sign like a homeless person saying, backer from Kickstarter will pay for
tickets to my own movie.
And yeah, it didn't go over well.
I'm sure there's probably people in this audience with some, there's got to be with
anomalies.
You actually took over for anomalies.
We got called to the tail.
Can we talk about his world view now?
Okay.
Just get that out of the way.
All right, but I'm telling you while you were in the bathroom, I checked in on his world
view.
He is so racist.
But I saw, I saw it get out.
It's one of the new racists.
It's like a nineties band.
Yeah.
But you, that's the interesting thing about you is you, by the way, you don't work for
Kickstarter.
No.
You're kind of a freelancer.
That's what's interesting to me is that, that's the healthy part of capitalism is that
crowd sourcing popped up, which is vastly superior in my opinion.
What about ethics and karma and like, Oh, give the people their TV and movies.
It's just more efficient to say to people, Hey, I'm thinking of making a night writer
reboot.
I need $5 million to do what I have in mind.
If enough people and only if enough people are so interested in it that they can pledge
the money in advance to see it, then I can make it.
Well, this is, I mean, that's the amazing thing about the studio system, right?
Like everyone racks their brains and worries about getting fired because they're like,
How do we figure out what the audience likes?
Nobody knows what the audience likes, except of course the audience, if you just ask them.
Right.
Which you now can with it by clicking it and, and, and, right.
You can find out whether anybody would want to show up for the thing that you want to
make.
And if they don't, you don't have to waste your time on it.
I mean, this is what you were saying, you know, before earlier this evening is it's
nice.
It's not that you're begging people for money, which is what some people think it is.
That you're finding out before you put two years of your life into doing a new project,
whether anybody gives a fuck about that project.
Right.
It's also good creatively too, because you have to build board a few ideas.
So I think it, it's actually helped me kind of like put forward what are the new things
in MST or what, what can I show you about it?
That's kind of an innovation or a feature.
Well, because we're kind of spoiled.
We do, we're coming from a world where like those are the suits and like it's easy for
us to look at them as mommy and daddy and we're creative and if only I could have, if
you would just let me stop doing math homework and start doing this thing that I really want
to do, then I'd do it.
But the truth is, yeah, no one wants to write an outline.
No one wants to figure out what the fuck you're going to do.
And it's, it is that I, that's, I didn't want to throw BRAF under the bus.
I wanted to use him as a, I think that was an interesting thing that we went through
all those years ago where it was like, oh Kickstarter started and it was like, oh, this
guy doesn't have a finger and he wants to come up with a prosthetic finger that all
the prosthetic companies won't allow him to make.
Can I have money?
And it was easy to think of it as like, oh, that's what crowdfunding is.
It's us revolting against the system and funding things that couldn't exist otherwise.
And see, that's, that's, if you want like the closest thing I have to a worldview, because
I don't have a worldview.
But I have a view on like- Just say it's your worldview and let's move on.
So my worldview is basically that like, in this space, the thing that interests me about
it is not the money.
Like the money's the least interesting part of crowdfunding and I get kind of like itchy
and pissed off when people are like, oh, that guy's a crowdfunding guru.
Which is what Joel and I makes a point of telling everybody when he introduces me to
them.
Because to me, the like, the money isn't the interesting part, the, the fact that the
crowd at large has the chance to say, this is what we want and we're tired of people ignoring
us when we say we'd rather, you know, it's the, it's the Futurama meme.
Like shut up and take my money.
Yeah.
Well, because the, the, the people that, capitalism and populism are, it's not like they're removed
from each other.
It's not like people that want to make money are constantly going, oh, what all those people
want is so disgusting to me.
They use it.
They throw it in the face of people.
They go, well, the people wanted it.
So it's like, just connect those wires, whatever.
Why am I explaining this to a nation of people that already know?
All right.
So your worldview is basically like, I know you voted for Trump.
You explained to me, it's part of being a racist.
We have cards that instruct us.
We have limited chairs.
Is there anything that, because I want to bring up our actual guests.
I want, I want Joel to stay because I value his, his disruption, the, the, but, but you
I'm going to trade for other people.
So I, it's, it's okay.
He can take it.
It's a simulation.
So it's totally.
It doesn't matter.
Yeah.
It's, it's fun.
You and I will talk when you're ready for 60s in a movie.
Yeah.
See that.
Well, okay.
So there's a thing I can't do.
That's the thing.
Post Veronica Mars world, like, like I feel sometimes I feel like not getting off the
stage.
Well, I feel, I do feel like people go there and go, how come Dan doesn't love community?
How come he doesn't want to help us out?
Because if he did, wouldn't he just jump on the internet and say, who wants to pay me
a dollar, a ticket?
I need $40 million to make the community movie and all the stuff.
It's like, I, I, the, like the, can you tell me why I'm not doing that in a way that will
make some people like feel less like I, it's like a symphony, not liking.
I could guess a bunch of different reasons and I can tell you like why Joss Whedon doesn't
do it with Firefly, which is the other one besides you that people keep asking for.
And that's the, just because the possibility is there, doesn't mean that it's necessarily
what you want to do with the next chunk of your life, or it doesn't mean that there's
a story you want to tell just because people want a story told.
Like if you had an idea and you had no other way to do it and you were itching to tell
that story, then maybe you'd be looking at it, but to do it just because it's what people
are clamoring for doesn't mean that you're going to get excited enough to make something
right.
So you're saying the reason there's not a community movie is because Dan doesn't like
the community.
That's pretty, that's, that's my worldview.
I heard it's because I'm like Joss Whedon.
That's what I heard.
I feel like you, your simulation is glitching.
Oh no.
I didn't raise any money to remember your name.
So that's okay.
I haven't asked it.
It's still Ivan.
What is it?
Ivan.
Okay.
Well, is there anything I want to honor you because you came up and stuck your neck out
and like put up with this.
So is there anything from your worldview that like you want to plug anything, tip anybody
off to any, any like fucking projects you're cooking up?
Is there a Knight Rider series that needs people to click on or any projects?
Uh, I mean, I'm supposed to talk to Justin about something.
Really?
Oh shit.
Maybe.
About the fact that I'm always out of the loop on Justin projects.
I'm, I'm, no comment.
What are you supposed to talk about Justin about, what is he, what is he up to now?
First you hold back on the Zach Braff.
Now you're holding back on Justin.
We want to know what is Rick and where are you being deprived of that it needs to be
crowdfunded.
It's so, it's a fucking virtual reality project.
Isn't it?
He's obsessed.
I, I genuinely don't know what he wants to talk about.
He might just want to introduce you to like a porn star or something.
If there's money in it.
Yeah.
You got to come over to my house.
It's going to be great.
Those pickups never end well.
I never get invited anymore.
Oh, it's all right.
There'll still be a season four.
We'll figure it out.
All right.
Well, so let's, let's, let's thank Ivan for, for sharing.
I've been asked with, okay.
Okay.
And let's, let's, let's, let's, let's immediately now because I, I've eaten into their time.
Let's, let's, let's bring up Robert Evans and Magenta Vaughn and we'll tell you.
All right, sorry you guys, I don't know what, I guess I, I apologize too much.
Yeah.
For all you know, it's part of the format of the show for me to not bring up that one.
Um, all right.
So first let's just, I'd like you to explain your worldview.
Uh, it's shit except for the stuff that's not, and that stuff's all right.
That's what I think sometimes.
We weren't talking about upstairs just to skip around because I'm a bad interviewer.
You just came back from the Middle East.
You were in Iraq specifically?
Iraq and Turkey.
Yeah.
But mostly Iraq.
Uh, so really right in the Middle East.
Yeah.
Right in the middle.
We had to cross the, the Tigris to get where we were going.
Um, the part, when the Middle East isn't prepared properly and it's the first place
that's like cold.
Um, okay.
Um, but you were talking about like Rick and Morty fans.
Yeah.
In Iraq?
Was it Iraq?
Yeah.
It was Iraq.
Um, yeah.
And we were talking about the fact that somebody, somebody quoted you, you take it so that someone's
talking other than me.
Yeah.
So we, uh, we've got a couple of friends out there and one of them is this guy I R who's
like 27 years old and his day job is taking journalists from Erbil, which is a safe city
in Northern Iraq to Mosul, which is the city where all the ISIS guys are.
So like one day he'll be in college studying for his business degree and the next day he'll
be like taking sniper fire with the guys from vice or the guys from the New Yorker or the
guys from the New York times or the Guardian, like he's worked with everybody that's done
anything out there.
Um, and so.
Fake news.
What's that?
Definitely.
Sounds like fake news.
Yeah.
Okay.
He's where the fake news comes from.
All right.
Gotcha.
So this guy, like he's a, he's a perfectly normal dude.
We'll talk about the Simpsons or whatever, just like Facebook, like he loves, like he,
he, he, he shot a mannequin challenge video with members of the Iraqi army, like, well,
they were, while they were under sniper fire.
Like he went up to these guys and was like, I want, there's this thing called the mannequin
challenge and I want to do it with you.
And they were like, no, that's the dumbest idea in the world.
But then he described it and they're like, oh, well, that's what we're supposed to do
under sniper fire.
It's decidedly not.
Oh, okay.
Cause they're like this.
Yeah.
They're, they're standing.
It was dangerous.
Oh God.
That's awful.
Could you imagine anything more horrible than a mannequin challenge video where midway
through it?
I mean, we've got it.
We can show it later if you want.
Okay.
It ends horribly.
No.
That one doesn't end horribly.
Please God.
I don't want to see this.
We're going to, we're going to delineate a visual chapter of the show for our audio
only participants so that we can either edit it out or they can plug their eyes.
But, but yeah, I just, I don't want to pepper the show with a, with a ton of visuals, but,
but, uh, so all right, well, anyways, but just to finish that random thought, when we
leave, I give this guy like my copies of Rick and Morty seasons one and two and he sends
me like a Facebook message the day we get back and he's like, this is the show I've
been waiting for all my life.
This is the best thing I've ever watched.
And he posts like a Rick meme to his Facebook, like Rick looking sad because he had like
a tough day at school like the next day.
And one of his friends who we'd met on the trip who also leads journalists up to the
front line immediately posted, nobody belongs anywhere.
Uh, you know, that whole quote, like everyone's going to die.
Let's go watch TV.
Right.
Because if you, if you've grown up as a kid and Iraq your entire life, like you're
tuned into the same global media cultures, everybody in this room, like we've all watched
time cop and commando and whatever in community.
But like also sometimes your friends explode because that's just like the nature of the
world you live in.
Like I are, we'd be talking with him about like bullshit.
And then randomly he'd mention, Oh, sorry, my suspension's messed up.
There was a car bomb and I got stuck in traffic and it blew up next to my car.
So the suspension's all fucked like, so they're, they're perfectly set up for that kind of
humor where it's like the, the, the darkness makes it feel right to them.
Like they don't.
I heard that.
I thought that was it.
Cause that reminded me of a thing my therapist was talking about, which was, uh, uh, she
watched something, I think it was documentary about women in war, um, and not, not meaning
women that put on a Kevlar vest and go out there like Vasquez and aliens, but, uh, uh,
in traditional cultures where the men go away and then the boys go away and then, and meanwhile
there's just, uh, rubble and, uh, need to continue as if life will continue after whatever's
going on.
And the psychological capacity of nurturers, uh, to be like, I don't fucking care about
this war.
This kid needs to learn the alphabet and he's not going to learn it or she, uh, if it's
the wrong place to be inclusive, uh, they're not going to learn it, uh, uh, if I'm so passionate
about the God damn struggle that's going on.
It's like, it, it, there's something about that.
I guess I related that to the idea that when you said that you said there's, if there's
a kid somewhere where everything's blowing up and they're quoting that line from Rick
and Morty, which believe me, when I write Rick and Morty and I like, I go to that nihilistic
place, I do it with difficulty because I feel like first world kid, I feel like I'm part
of the problem and not the solution sometimes, but it's like, because it's like kids, kids,
kids already feel like life means nothing.
Like that's called being a kid.
And so if your favorite cartoon is also saying life means nothing, I mean, but the alternative
is to say life means something and then I'd be lying.
I can't, but it's, but, but it's just like, like, like, so that line where, where Morty
says that, I remember, I remember typing that and going like, this is like the idea that
you're selling consumerism, basically you're saying like, life means nothing comes down
and watch TV.
I was like, ah, this feels a little shitty, but at the same time it just feels, it's,
it's like he's, he's being a good little brother is what she needs to hear, otherwise
she's going to leave home.
But hearing that somebody who is, whose life is being torn apart would cat, would, would
latch onto that line.
Then I go, oh, nihilism is like the baseline.
The truth is life means nothing.
If you, if you're wiping your ass with dollar bills and you say life means nothing, you're
being a piece of shit.
And if you're born in a bomb crater and you say life means nothing, you're actually like
centering yourself and getting through shit.
Like it's not, it's not nihilism if you live with that.
Like if it's a real possibility that like someone you know could die any day just because
like things explode where you live and that's a normal part of life or if you know you're
going to get shot at when you get up in the morning.
Like it's not nihilism to say, yeah, anyone can die at any point in time, let's enjoy
ourselves for this 22 minutes that we have that we know we're not getting shot at probably
right now.
Like that's not nihilistic.
That's like, that's like one of the most liberating things in the world is to be like, well I
know that right now when I'm watching TV I'm probably pretty safe, I'm going to go out
tomorrow and maybe die, but that's fucking in the morning.
Yeah, I mean, I really am drunk and I, look, the thing is, what's that?
Oh, you're such a, what does she have to say?
We'll be right with you sir, in the meantime, enjoy your poppers.
There's poppers?
There's poppers tonight.
Son of a bitch.
There's a lot of things I do wrong, among them is also I don't introduce people, I don't
tell them what's going on, it's like, I, no, it's okay.
Your cookie's in the mail for caring about her.
Magenta, what's your, so you guys, like let's get back to the top of the interview and what
I should say, bypassing your worldview.
You guys just came back from the Middle East, where are you the tippy typey, you tap the
things and are you photographing things?
And so what, how, are you guys young enough for me to ask how old you are?
29.
I'm a millennial.
Everybody under 40 is now, yeah, because you hear me shitting on millennials all the
time.
I just found out I'm one.
Can I ask how old you are?
27.
27 and 29.
Yeah.
I, like, so you guys, in the interest of journalism, you go to this place that, like, if you guys
were, knock on wood to have something horrible happen to you, like, the worst people in the
world would be the ones to say, well, why'd they go over there?
And the best people in the world would only say, oh, they went over there because they
love their job.
Like, nobody would say, well, good thing they went over there, like, so I want to know from
you guys, like, because you, you're the verbal one, you're the, not the pigeonhole you guys,
but you're taking pictures, you're writing stuff.
We switch now.
You're both journalists, you're providing, you're providing an otherwise ignorant world
with an eye tore into a part that they otherwise wouldn't see.
So why are you doing that?
I mean, we went over there for the first time because I'd read about this place called Kurdistan,
which is a region in northern Iraq that, if you read the news stories about it, it's supposed
to be really nice, really stable, really safe, really advanced attitudes for the region towards
women.
Like, one of the rules is in their parliament, 30% of the seats have to be held by women,
which is twice the representation of women in Congress in the United States, just as
a heads up.
It sounds like they're the Dan Harmon of Middle Eastern countries.
That's, that's literally on their flag.
It's a confusing flag.
I also force myself to include a certain amount of women in everything I do.
What per se.
You're welcome.
So it was one of those, like, we'd read all these reports, but they're also, like, you
don't, you never know what's true about that, especially since, like, there's a lot of people
on the, on the far right who have a lot of investment in Kurdistan, like the myth of
that being real and it actually being a really nice place because it's the one era where,
like, George Bush's plan worked out.
So I didn't know what it was.
What exactly is that real quick?
Democracy in Iraq, a safe, nice place where people get to vote and things don't explode
as much.
And what are the, what are the industries that people are in?
Oil.
Okay.
Almost entirely oil.
It's super corrupt up there, the government, which might not be a great thing for when
I go back to say, but, like, it's, it's,
Oh, they listen.
They listen to this show.
Yeah.
Kurdistan.
It's a surprising number.
All right.
So I want to make sure I don't lose something, though, because there's a point.
I want to go, I want to rewind your play deck to the point before you become the kind of
person that wants to go to the Middle East as a journalist.
And I want to, like, I want to frame forward from where you go from being someone that
hadn't considered that at all to being somebody that was like, I'm going to go over there.
Because it's probably one of the easiest decisions in the world for even the smartest, most liberal
people to be like, yeah, but then also I don't go over there.
Can I, can I butt in?
It's kind of like, why would you eat meat?
Like you should probably kill an animal and like know about what's going on in your side
of your body.
So like if millions of other people are living over there, why wouldn't you go there?
Wait, wait, I want to make sure I know the parallel you're drawing.
Because it's like, like, like why, I would eat meat because it's the easiest thing to
do.
No, it's not.
Also, can you eat the mic just a bit?
Sorry.
Oh yeah, eat the mic.
Definitely eat the mic.
It's not me.
I think you should be willing to do whatever, whatever you're partaking in.
And if you're in the society, buying things as you are, living as you are, contributing
to the whole world being the way it is, and you're fine with millions of other people
dying and living through that, like why don't you go check it out, because they're doing
it.
Right.
I, I, I, I know why it's a good thing to do.
I don't, I, I'm talking to the human beings though, like, like, where do you get to the
point where you find the ability to do it, because I know I shouldn't be eating meat.
I think I'd be happier if I didn't eat meat, but then I, then Tuesday turns into Wednesday
and Thursday.
But like, I should kill an animal and try it and just like, see how it makes you feel
about me.
Right.
I should, I should, I should.
The question also is what makes you brave?
Right.
Exactly.
That's what I'm trying to get at.
We all feel like we have a responsibility, but your responsibility is great in that you
put yourself in danger and come back and tell stories.
What exactly made you do that?
What makes you do that?
Bravery.
Yes.
It's pretty fucking brave to go to some place where people are doing bombs and shit.
You're just like in an airport and you're like buying your pretzel and drinking beer
and you like walk onto the runway and you're like getting drunk in the airplane and then
you're with other humans and there's dangerous things going around, but like, it's just,
you're moving physically to a different part of the world.
Wait, Magenta, sorry, just put, put, always, I want to make sure people hear you.
Okay.
Sorry.
But that's, this is the thing, it's like, can you remember a version of you that didn't
have that altruism that wasn't functioning on that level?
Can you remember a version of you that was selfish and lazy and did what was easy?
That's the only version of me.
What changed?
Did you see something?
Did you feel something?
Did you have a dialogue with yourself?
No pressure.
But I think the reason is because like, if I could just, I'll just babble and derail.
This is the thing.
Like, it is like, there's all these people in the world and then you go like, oh, there's
one of those, there's one of those war journalists.
Oh, they got the vest, they got the camera.
I just came back from Kublaka, Blaka, oh, what happened there?
Oh, well, there was this guy and then the wheel came off and then there's like, but
then we didn't know, we had to get blindfolded, all this stuff.
And the rest of us are thinking deep down inside, we're going like, well, I'll take
that information and I'll put it on my coffee mug and I'll use it to bully someone at work
tomorrow because I want them to vote for someone instead of someone.
But deep, deep, deep, deep down, although none of us are soldiers, you guys, you guys
go there figuratively and literally, it's truly a risk and it's truly more importantly
a risk that no one would even, that's what I was saying before.
And so I'm just, okay, one more, let me just, the valuable thing about me nitpicking this
is precisely because if you guys aren't that different from us, if you weren't born special
and brave, there might be something, there might be something we could, we could think
with or maybe some path we could walk down where we end up like acting instead of thinking.
So that's why I'm asking.
I mean, I can say the first war zone we ever reported from was in Eastern Ukraine, it was
this town called Avdivka.
Okay, but before that, no, I'm kidding.
We have what I'm getting to, Dan.
We want to know, did you get into a fight and it may, what made you, what made you suddenly
say, I'm going to do a little bit more than the average person when it comes to getting
facts.
I didn't like cleaning up dead animals and cockroaches and mobile homes.
There we go.
When you did it though, did you do it like as a journalist or you're like, I'm standing
over three dead bodies, roaches, the carnage here right now.
You can say, Robert, I didn't mean to.
I mean, I, like, I get, there's two parts to that question.
One of them is that like it's fun, like up until someone gets horrifically injured, it's
a lot of fun out there, like you're moving around, everything's going fast, you're writing
around in cool vehicles, everyone's really friendly, everything's super funny.
Like anything that happens in a war zone, like it's hilarious to everybody who's there.
Like it's just like, at one point we're at this area where like some ISIS snipers had
just been shooting and they've been shooting rockets back at them and this guy is like
trying to load a big rocket and he leans over and all the grenades fall off of his vest
and down the berm and he's like, it's like, it was like a fucking like slapstick comedy
moment as he's like going for all these grenades and he sees we're filming him and he's like,
you could tell the guy felt so bad that we caught that moment where he looked like a
badass and then he drops his grenades on camera.
This brings up an interesting, my mind is scrambling because I have two big questions
off of that to ask which is, but I think the one I don't want to forget is when, so you're
traveling with military people always.
No, no, no.
They're up at the front.
You usually, so all of the war journalism, whether it's vice or the New York Times or
the New Yorker or the Guardian or the BBC, anytime you see this report from Iraq, this
report from Syria, those guys got in a car with some local person whose primary qualification
was speaks good English and knows someone involved in the military in some way there
and that person led them around.
They're called fixers and it's like a little cottage economy that pops up all around.
I should probably plug, we're raising money for a documentary about some of these guys
called the fixers.
It's on Indiegogo, sorry about that.
But they, and these guys, they range from like literal war profiteers to where they're
just like, you're just paying them $600 to drive you to a dangerous place to like actual
good journalists.
Like there's this great New Yorker article that the two people we worked with for this
documentary helped put together where like, this guy from the New Yorker was like, I
want to talk to some, I know this battle is going to start for Mosul, I want to talk to
these Iraqi special forces and they were like, well actually there's the SWAT team of guys
that were put together because they all had someone they know killed by ISIS and so it's
like this huge vengeance quest for all of these guys.
These are the dudes you should get embedded with and he did and it's a great article
on the New Yorker by Luke Mubleson.
He's there, so like, and it's not political the reason I'm asking the question, it's like,
it's because you guys are, I, if I had a fire person up here, is that, a fire lady?
If I had a firefighter up here, which I never have, I'd be like, okay, why would you ever
run into a fire?
And I know I get some answer, like, I feel comfortable because I've watched enough Scorsese
movies and stuff that I, you know, if they were like, well, my dad was a Southie and
I said, you know, you got to fight fire, you know, and I'm like, and I'm not, I'm not,
I'm not saying, I'm not trivializing it or undercutting it, I'm saying like, I can map
that in my universe the same way that in pre-Columbian Earth we could go, here there's dragons.
I've always been fascinated with this archetype where you guys, like, you're, you're going
and pointing and clicking and you're, and you're writing about and you're interviewing in these
places that all we know about them and all we seem to continue to know about them is
that they're a mess and that, and that they're be dragons.
And so I, I, I, I kind of like, I don't want you to compromise your integrity if, if you
feel like it makes you sound like a douchebag, but if you were to say to me, you know what,
at the end of the day, it's just the perfect slot, like, I feel like it's just enough trouble
and just low enough risk or if you put it on, I'd be like, okay, I got it, I got it.
It's not that.
I think, okay, so this is where I think you're, and I think we're like 99% of people who
haven't been to a place like that.
And I think probably most people who go there as part of the military because you only see
a very limited chunk of these countries when you're doing that.
You see it through the eyes of, of some of these geopolitical strengths.
Exactly.
And you're in, like, even in a place like Iraq, most of the country is perfectly nice.
Like geographically, most of the country is nice.
Iraqis are the kindest people to guests that you will ever meet in the world.
They will, there were times when we would be, we would be in Mosul.
So we're in the most dangerous city on earth probably, like there's all night you're hearing
the sounds of gunfire, there's fucking like vehicle based IEDs blowing up and like sending
mushroom clouds up into the, up into the sky a mile away and you, you drive up to where
like just some dudes are bunked down and their job is to pull people out of like collapsed
buildings.
They got blown up in airstrikes every day and you're like, can we crash here tonight?
And of course you're staying here tonight.
We're going to cook you dinner.
Like we've got all this tea on, like we're getting our tobacco up.
Let's talk and hang out all night.
Like you guys will be as safe here as you are anywhere.
Like if you spend more than like 20 minutes talking to anyone in their house in Iraq,
they're going to invite you to stay the night.
They're going to invite you to cook food for you.
They're going to put out tea for you.
Like you have to, you have to turn people down from giving you hospitality.
Like we would be talking to people who'd had family members killed in American airstrikes
and had a lot of reasons to be angry at the U.S. and they would tell it to you.
They'd be like, you know, I have issues with your government, but I don't know that's just
your politicians.
You're a guest here in my home and I'm going to take the best care of you that you've ever
had taken of you.
Like it's, you don't feel like when people are shooting at you during those limited
chunks of time and they, they generally are pretty limited temporally.
They're, they're, they're in enough supply for me to the extent that it would ever happen.
Yeah.
A little bit go a long way.
But that, that part, that part's like there's, there's fear in that part, but the rest of
the time you're not actively terrified.
I'm sorry.
When we mentioned homelessness one night after we were, thought we were finished filming
the documentary, I are the guy that we're, one of the guys we're doing it on.
He didn't understand the concept of homelessness and that just blew my mind.
Yeah.
We're talking with all these guys whose job again is to pull people out of like burning
buildings and whatnot.
And like none of these guys have been paid in two and a half years because they're all
civil employees of the city that got taken over by ISIS.
So they spent two and a half years living under ISIS control.
The city got liberated and now they're doing the same job for the Iraqi government, but
they're still not getting paid because the government hasn't reactivated their paychecks.
And we get onto the subject of homelessness in Los Angeles.
And he's like, wait, go back home.
What do you mean homeless people?
Like, like they have less home?
Yeah.
We had to explain it.
Right.
Where are their families?
I would say that that is blowing my mind and also makes sense because you're like, wait,
where else but a totally entrenched capitalistic first world empire would you go, oh, no home.
What did he do wrong?
But is that, God, I don't mean to keep nagging you about this, but is that, why is that?
Let me pitch you something, say yes or no.
You do it because you get the satisfaction of knowing that you've taken the more Keanu
pill from the Matrix than the Pantiliano's pill.
I can't remember which color is which, but I know one hates women and one hates Pantiliano's.
See, well, that's the thing, like you're out there and there's sand in your head and you're
like, I'm like, what about the Matrix?
Is that part of it?
Is it like kind of like, man, I live in fucking Riyadh.
Personality, man.
Like you're like a weird drone, you know, normal person and like, are you like a weird drone?
Yes.
No, me, I'm saying, I'm saying, is that part of the satisfaction of being like, yeah,
I want to breathe free air, i.e. real air.
I don't want to, I don't want to be like the actor, Joe Pantiliano, who you should really
Google and appreciate in the Matrix, he's the Judas character who is like, give me the
stake, give me the, you know, not a new myth, but it was modernized, so I use that to connect
with the kids.
Also, we kind of think that we're good at adventure.
And so maybe we have a little bit of ego there.
Like we think that we can get a little bit deeper than the journalist next to us.
And so that's kind of a fun challenge.
There's a competitive aspect to it.
I want to ask that really difficult question that I don't think I would ever have the balls
to ask a soldier because I feel like I would be, I would actually almost be somehow spiritually
offensive.
But do you guys feel like you're, like, karmically, like, no, not at all, like you get, like you
got a little bubble around you, like you're a hobbit and not an elf, like, no, we bought
medical kits.
I'll just kind of, you know, I'm more important, not more important, but more like detached,
like, like, like when R2 and C3 people are walking through the spaceship in the beginning
of the original Star Wars, you should look at that up too.
I've seen the original Star Wars, I don't know what to believe anymore, but it's like,
no one shoots a droid, why would you, you know, the answer is because one of them holds
the fucking hope.
Is that, is that, like, part of the journalist, like, like, like, fetish maybe?
No.
I don't, like, for me, it's, like, I've always liked to travel and stuff, and I like that
feeling of, like, getting an idea of how, like, tiny you are.
And it's also, like, extreme experiences are interesting, and there's nothing more extreme
than that experience.
There's nothing more extreme than, like, being in it.
Like, it looks like, like, Mosul right now looks like you see these movies, like, World
War II movies of Stalingrad and stuff, like, what was the, the, the one about the sniper
in there?
I don't know.
Enemy at the gates.
Like, it looks, like, it looks like that, so you're seeing all this stuff that, like,
you never would have imagined seeing with your own eyes, and it's so shocking and weird
and fascinating.
And as, like, a journalist, like, my whole, the whole thing that motivates me is talking
to people with more interesting stories than me.
And so that kind of place, like, you, any single person you just walk up to and start
talking to, they have experiences you can't imagine, they've seen things that I can't
even comprehend, they have, they have a thousand experiences to tell me.
So, like, normally working, like, when I'm at the Republican National Convention or the
Democratic Convention, like, doing, like, you walk up to people and most people don't
have anything interesting, interesting to say, and the people that do have, like, two
interesting sentences.
Like, you go to a place like that, everybody you talk to has a thousand fascinating things
to say.
And I would imagine, I don't want to take, but it's, it's the same way with pictures
there, too, like, anywhere you turn.
That was the, I was absolutely going to go there.
Oh, here's a, yeah, here's a concrete example.
You're holding up a can, you guys showed me these cans.
This is just in the department of, if you go far enough in the world, there's shit you
won't believe, which is, they sell cans of liquor.
This is canned whiskey.
It's not, it's not a mixed drink.
Like it's not, it's not a whiskey soda.
It's not like a little bit of whiskey poured into it.
This is straight whiskey.
And there's, it's around for sips, if people want sips, it's not going to push it.
There is a can, there is a can back at the bar that should be open now, if people want
to take little bits of it, and we can pass this around.
It's God awful.
Um, I'm not, there's, there's no sugarcoating this.
It's the worst thing to drink.
We have a hand raised, I'll reward your politeness by giving you the floor.
I'll fall on that grenade.
Oh, wait, what?
Oh, oh, you just went liquor.
Jesus.
And you used the worst metaphor ever.
Not that they're soldiers, but like, I mean, that is like,
You know, Willie Roberts, he found a grenade in Los Feliz.
What?
He just found a grenade somewhere.
The police came and blew it up.
Oh, nice.
All right.
Next episode.
Yeah.
You would, you would have loved it.
I wanted to, we, we, because Magenta, you're, uh, you look for, through a camera while
you're there.
I'm not pigeonholing you because you said backstage like, well, you'll like to do the,
you want to do the typing too, but, um, or the talking, you guys overlap or the talking
but the, okay, but the I, when you're abroad and you're covering war, uh, what, I, I, I,
like you, you be the judge of whether or not it's like, uh, should we, do you want to talk
about it or do you want to show some of the stuff, uh, that you guys brought while you
talk about it?
Is that like a better way to do it?
You can do that at some point, any, any point you want.
Cause I think, yeah, it'd probably be an easy thing in the, for the audio podcast listeners.
If we're, let's just look at some stuff and let's just make an edit point here and say,
hey, $5 a month.
Oh, for the, for the podcast, we should just put in like screaming, just like screeching
and just the solid me undies ad.
Yeah.
Here's a, here's a free me undies ad I want to give.
I shit my pants this morning.
Where were you?
Because of a weekend of drinking nothing but Soylent because my girlfriend is writing.
So she's not around to order pizza with, uh, I, I was so unwilling to throw my me undies
away.
I watched them in the sink, which sink that was not an ad for Soylent.
Me undies didn't pay for it.
I just love me undies that much and don't want to throw them away.
All right.
Well, that's convinced me.
How do I get these underpants?
I'll get, uh, you, you, yeah, go to, not those underpants, right?
I'm telling you, they're, it's like, it's, it's, it's incredible.
You can put them on Kickstarter.
I mean, but that's why, and then I go like, well, so why would I go to Iraq?
They don't have me undies.
I mean, they, they might have them there.
Well, if we, if we, if we bring freedom to them, of course, you know, what, what I did
get over there was a pair, a great pair of Hugo bass underwear.
But did they have micro modale, a fabric that's three times softer than cotton?
Nice.
I, is that a, is that a synthetic fiber?
Oh yeah.
It's made in LA, I think.
You don't want to wear synthetic fibers and cause when things light on fire around you,
they can melt to your skin.
If you get hit by an incendiary, you want to have natural fiber.
What's the verdict on the whiskey so far?
It's good.
All right.
I can't, I can't believe y'all are saying that.
Do you want the actual, this is the actual whiskey.
This one's different.
It's not a sweet.
Oh man.
Part of a faux pas.
All right.
No, do it.
No, go ahead.
And let's put a, we'll put a little edit marker somewhere around here.
If you're...
It's a mannequin challenge.
It's pretty funny.
We're going to, we're going to look at some stuff that only you guys are looking at because
you're here.
We'll describe it to you though.
There's a feminist American militia one.
Start with the mannequin challenge.
That was pretty funny.
Yeah.
So this is, so I went to these guys and was like, I want to do this, there's this thing
called the mannequin challenge, guys who are in an active war zone.
I want you to do this for me.
And they were like, no.
I love it.
So you had the balls to say to them, hey, could you plank for me and...
Yeah.
Yeah, does this sort of thing happen a lot as like people dabbing when grenades are going
through the air?
No.
Ice bucket challenge.
So he tells him to do this and they say, no, but part of his job, like the reason he's
a good fixer, the reason he can get journalists places is that he just, he meets a lot of
officers and like captains, colonels, generals, and you get their phone numbers.
Like it's the Iraqi military is not like the US military.
Like it's all about who you know, you bring people cigarettes and they're your buddy.
So he calls their captain up and he says, I want you to make them do this.
And their captain called them and said, do this.
And then they had to do it.
And you can tell how pissed they are in the video.
Is it going to fuck things up because I don't think Joel's going to be able to contain himself.
You're what?
He's going to start making funny riffs during the...
I think that's fine.
No, we all, you all know how this, you all know how the mannequin challenge goes.
All right, well, since I was but you said, of course, see, just like real men, that girl
is a real crowd, please, small world, all the friends know me, young boy living like an
old kid, release the cash, watch it fall slowly, right girl, still trying to get it, haters
mad for whatever reason.
They're smoking the air, they're drinking, they lose it when the DJ drops and he ain't
gonna lose.
Getting so gone, I'm not thinking, what in the world was I thinking today?
No money to be made.
Damn.
Rappers ain't shit.
Rappers are not shit.
If you have guns in your video and you're trying to act hard and shit, you're not this fucking
hard.
This is as hard as a fucking hit.
I think you won the mannequin challenge.
Yeah, yeah.
It's weird to think about because when we think of soldiers, we think of army men, we think
of World War II, we think of guys in camouflage holding guns because they're detached from
what's going on at home.
And what's going on at home is television and Bart Simpson and donuts and that's what
they're fighting for and all this stuff.
So to be in a third world country and be holding an assault rifle and your orders are to kill
another human being with fast flying pieces of metal that are gonna be projected from
your gun, but to have a phone in your pocket connected to Donald Trump's tweets and stranger
things, gossip.
I don't know if like, and to have a journalist telling you, hey, do you know what the mannequin
challenge is?
Oh yeah, I know what that is.
I'll do that.
I'm gonna go back to blowing the head off of someone if they do the wrong thing like
appear in front of me.
I want to clarify that was filmed by IR who's our fixer.
We had nothing to do with that.
That was his purely he was motivated to do that when he was up there.
Wait, so you weren't there?
I was not there at that point.
No, that was in October.
So he's like, hey, should I do the mannequin challenge?
And you're like, you don't have to do that for me.
And he's like, no, it'll be great.
Oh, he did that for him.
That was all for IR.
How do you get, how do you get people to trust you?
How do you get people to take you where you need to go to see things?
I mean, it's, it's most about meeting good people.
So before we went over there, I got the numbers and names of a bunch of different fixers who
are all people who said they could do this for us.
And then I found people who they were connected to on Twitter who had like the guy that I
wound up reaching out to runs a company that helps recover people who have been kidnapped
and ransomed.
So this guy was a friend of the guy that I was going to work with when it was like a
Twitter buddy of the guy was going to work with.
And I was like, hey, did you work with this guy in Iraq?
And he said, yes.
So this guy has like clear credentials.
He knows what he's doing.
He's got a record.
I say, can I trust this guy?
And he says, yes, I would say you can trust him with your life.
Do people like, do they know you're liberal?
Do they care that their story is going to get told a certain way?
I have, I, we, the first time we met, oh, sorry.
I think they're hyper aware around journalists.
Okay.
They don't want.
Bullshit.
So you have to really sift through it.
And how do you do that?
How do you get to like, we want to know what's really going on?
Do you want to talk about the Japanese guy that was there for a week?
Yeah.
So this sets up some of the other footage.
So like, this kind of dovetails in the topic of fake news.
So we're there.
We're there one morning and we drive into West Mosul, which is the part of the city
that's still a big chunk of it's held by ISIS.
And we get up to the front and our fixers are with us like, there's going to be a
caravan with a bunch of other journalists and a bunch of Iraqi army guys.
We need to ride with them up to the front, but we want to escape from them as soon as
we can so we can run around without handlers and whatnot so we can actually get a good
story.
Seems like a good idea.
Yeah.
You don't want to be where all the other people with cameras are, but we wound up getting
corralled into this van and wind up with these guys anyway.
And they take us to a section of the front line and where there are five minutes and
there's one or two sniper shots from ISIS and they just start firing.
The Iraqi army just starts firing all of the RPGs and these big weapons called
SPG-9s and just shooting everything off.
You called my name.
You were talking to me and I was walking through this part that you're supposed to run
through, but he said my name so I turned around and I forgot that I'm not supposed to
like, that's not a good place to stand.
So I was there for too long so someone started shooting.
But there was a berm above us.
Nobody could hit us, which was the point.
So this is the point is that we were never in, it was not a real firefight.
We watched this thing happen and it's incredibly, it looks like a movie, it feels like an
actual fight, and then after it gets done and all these, there's like 20 people filming
it, our fixers turn to us and they're like, you know that was mostly bullshit, right?
Like every morning they lead journalists right here and there's always that, that always happens.
It's like 1,000 outgoing shots for everyone I'm coming.
But you guys know, that takes me back to this all important point.
It's like you guys do perceive the, like you, do you make peace with the idea like I do
when I fly on an airplane, period, because it's, that's too much for me to be out of
that much control and to have these savages called flight attendants like in charge of
my destiny.
Like I need to decide before I get on the plane, I might die, blah, blah, blah.
I hope not to.
You could argue I expect not to.
I will complain if I start dying.
I will go to my grave dying.
If I did what you do, I can't do that.
I can't be like, oh, look at that landmine go off.
Wait, there's one under me.
I've had it.
But if I get on a United Airlines and a cop starts tasing me because their Christmas discount
isn't working or whatever the fuck, I can be like, this is bullshit.
It might not work, but at least I have that recourse.
That is a blanket we wrap around ourselves.
We feel like complaining.
We're never more than one complain away from our mommy grabbing us and going, it's okay.
And that's why I continue to eat meat.
Because to continue to do what you did before and to only cry out and to only do things
when something's wrong, that's just primatology.
And that's why I keep harping on that because I truly do wish because I want to know.
The biggest thing in my mind is I want to know, when you guys look at people like me,
do you go, you fucking gross piece of shit?
Or are you like, that's the customer.
Well, let's go up.
Take some more pictures of landmines for them.
Okay, so here's what you're getting at there is what makes something really scary is not having any control.
They did a series of studies on fighter pilots in Vietnam back during that whole war thing
and they found out that, so most of these fighters would have, there's the actual pilot and then there's the navigator.
And so in the weeks leading up to the mission, the navigator who was planning the mission,
who was deciding where they were going to go and exactly what was going to happen, had very low stress levels.
And the fighter pilot's stress levels spiked because they had no control over anything.
And then during the actual mission, when they're actually flying, the fighter pilots have zero stress,
but the navigator's stress spikes because you have no control over that plane.
That's what makes things scary is the lack of control.
So when you're in a plane at 30, 40,000 feet, however the fuck high planes go,
I don't have any more ability to affect that than you do.
But like when I'm in Mosul and somebody might shoot at me,
I have the ability to run and hide behind a heavy wall or find the biggest Iraqi guy in a body armor and hide behind the wall.
That's the whole problem though. That's the thing, like when I go in the Batman ride at Six Flags.
Completely perfect parallel.
It's the only parallel I have.
When they lower a big fucking 90s or more modern like great over you,
like eating meat by the way, it's like I'm telling you,
when you have society's fucking permission to be like a piece of garbage,
when you're like clank, you're like it's not my fault if anyone gets decapitated on this ride.
I can't, I'm in a Batman harness.
I can't do shit. Scariest roller coaster I ever went on.
The world's oldest roller coaster is like Six Flags.
The eagle, they put you in a wagon and put a jump rope across your lap.
I am now at fault if everyone dies, including myself.
I'm going to fail.
That to me is, you're saying, you sound like you'd be like,
whoof, hate being in that Batman harness, not enough control.
I'm like, what are you talking about?
Give me a sedative.
Would you rather kill yourself or someone else kill you?
Would I rather kill myself or have someone else kill me?
Okay, I love you.
By the way, I also love our audience who tweeted,
I said we have war journalists fresh back from Middle East
and there's a fucking handful of shit that would make Chomsky fumfer.
I want to get to them, but I also want to see photos.
I want to ask, okay, would I rather kill myself or be killed?
I'd rather kill myself.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
But here's the thing.
I think this is really important.
That's an easy question to answer because it's like a credit card bill
that you buy control.
If you asked me, you have to die at 12 a.m.,
is it going to be by your own hand or by a stranger?
Would my answer change?
Because when you say, would you rather kill yourself or be killed,
all I hear is control versus lack of control.
Instead of Batman versus old roller coaster, because that doesn't make sense.
You should want the old roller coaster, not Batman.
I want to kill myself because then I get to just be like,
okay, well, maybe today, maybe tomorrow.
Gladly pay you for a hamburger.
That's what we're all doing.
We're kind of like going like, how are you doing, Joel?
I have an idea.
I was just going to say about being in situations where it's dangerous
and there's tension and a threat.
A lot of it is gradual.
You move into it slowly and you could say your job,
you could say your job is scary and there's a lot of tension.
There's a lot of money getting thrown around and you have to make a show.
And for a lot of people, that would be very daunting and you gradually moved into it.
And so I think that's one piece of this,
is just that you slowly get into more and more dramatic situations
and you always feel like you may have leverage in your pocket like a way.
I felt like when I was working on community,
all of a sudden I'm on a network sitcom and I'm surrounded by people who are fucking pros
and I'm coming from it.
I got fired from basic cable.
I wasn't even able to hold myself there.
I'm like, these people are diplomats.
I'm on King's Landing and I'm a fucking wildling.
Do you guys know what that means?
No, you were out fucking doing important shit.
Game of Thrones is important shit, Dan.
That's not downplaying the importance of that.
And I distinctly recall, because I was like,
well, I've always been a piece of shit that loves having attention paid to me
and I did notice that the people I was the most afraid of,
because of their business acumen, because of their diplomacy,
because of their savvy, when the spotlight would hit me,
they would shrink away.
They would be like, don't talk about that.
No, I don't want to do an interview with them.
I'd be like, oh, so if I'm Colonel Sanders, it's my fried chicken.
Does that make sense?
So that's an example.
I could picture a firefighter even going like,
okay, so, oh, you're scared about the idea of running into a burning building
because it's mystical to you.
I found something that I've demystified and I can continue to explore it.
That person's not going to go back and go,
but what about my parcheesy skills?
That person's going to continue to go like,
I want to grow in that direction.
I want to...
That's helping me not hate myself for living on the same earth as you.
What are you talking about?
Because I'm worried I'm not a good person, but now I realize nothing matters.
But being a good person has nothing to do with doing stuff that's like dangerous
and ill advised.
You can see that because you traipse over the military zones.
Oh, who's the thing?
I live in the matrix. I love my state.
No, we all live in the same city here.
I get that sometimes around.
No, you live on earth. You live in reality.
You're a child of God.
I'm a fat, fucking horrible agent of compromise.
And you know that.
And the fact that you won't admit it makes me hate you.
There's nothing more without compromise.
Kill me.
So I don't have to kill myself.
I know you know people with guns.
I don't have the balls to get my own.
My 10-day waiting period is plus seven months.
All right.
Let's roll some of that beautiful bean footage.
Magenta, do we have stuff up here that you've photographed?
Okay.
Let's look at...
I want to look at war photography.
Yeah, that's what I was starting to walk...
Do you want someone getting shot?
No.
Why am I saying no?
I want the part of war where everyone high-fives.
Do you want to do the screening with us in Iraq?
No, we don't want to do anything.
We'll keep you safe.
We'll be a really nice hotel.
The hotel is really nice.
Should we go do a Harmontown in the Middle East?
Yeah!
I'm telling you, if you want to go...
We could talk about this later if you're serious,
but if you want to do a Harmontown in Arabil,
it is a safer city than Los Angeles.
What if we do a Harmontown there and it's 9-11?
They didn't do 9-11.
I know. I'm just saying. Wouldn't it be weird?
So I was like, it's 9-11.
Let's just look at some pictures.
You tell me, Magenta,
if you're...
The average person is like,
I don't even understand any photographer.
I admire all of them.
They look through a lens and they go,
that's a good picture as opposed to everything else I look at.
Can you shed any verbal light on what it is
you're supposed to do when you want to take pictures of shit?
Shed that verbal light, y'all.
Well, photography is very different.
Which is why I have a chance,
because I'm a horrible photographer.
I'm not a photographer.
I'm just trying this new thing out that I like.
And so you can't have as much control as you want to have,
which would be awkward for you, I guess.
Who is that?
If I was like, I prefer to write
in a tank of water hanging upside down.
What are the shows that they do on the street?
If my script is like, that's good for a guy
hanging upside down in a tank of water.
It's like Christian rock.
Can't plan Christian rock?
If you're bad at rock, you're still Christian.
It doesn't have to be Van Halen.
You love Christ.
If you're photographing Iraq,
you're like, well, there was a guy shooting at me.
Or a lady.
It's a great place to practice.
No, but I'm sorry.
I got distracted by my fucking dumb shit.
But there is a little bit of truth to that.
You're like, well, I don't want to be Ansel Adams,
because I don't know how to deal with that internal.
My therapist says, run on the engine, not the pistons.
So when you're photographing in the field,
are you like, do you discriminate?
Are you looking?
That's a good picture.
I'll figure it out later.
So probably somewhere in between.
I just do whatever I feel like doing,
and he'll be like, look that way,
and then I just start doing that.
And it's like, and look that way is based on?
Well, some of it's like we're filming a documentary out there.
So some of it's like, oh, we need footage of this.
Or I'm saying something,
and we want to get them on camera saying this,
can you get over here?
Talk about the eyes that you see in a lot of those people,
and how that little kid you saw in the back of the truck,
like sometimes people's eyes,
just like you see someone and it's like magnetic.
You just get pulled to them.
If you want to, you know, if you want to,
because it's audio, it's a podcast.
That's probably not interesting.
Some of their eyes are magnetic, I don't know.
Have I been, maybe I've been stupid,
but you're doing all video, are you doing still photographs?
Last time we did photographs,
and so I bought the A6000 and he's like,
oh, let's make a documentary.
So we just bought a GoPro in Iraq at the mall
to make the documentary and use the A6000.
So you're a videographer, I have this 80s thing in my head
where it's like James Woods with a vest,
and he's like got film roles.
James Woods was there.
The right instant will end up on the cover of time
and change the way people vote.
I mean, that's not, it's like you're getting footage
of shit that could also be on the cover
of a Harry Potter version of Time
where things on the cover move.
And do you ever use stills from your video?
A little bit.
Awesome. Let's take a look.
Let's look at, what would you want people to see?
Well, there's three videos that tell a little bit of the story
we were just talking about.
So let's start with RPG Fire, which comes from
that first firefight we saw.
I just fired an RPG in my HTC Vive at home.
It's a VR simulator of a...
Then you can tell us how accurate this is.
What the fuck?
This is fake. This is the fake one.
Weapons and stuff.
Thousands of dollars.
That's like your...
That's like Gilligan's Island tour.
ISIS shot about two rounds at us,
and the Iraqi army fired everything that they had back at them.
They were aiming...
They were pivoting towards the cameras at points.
You can see it.
And then afterwards, the second video,
they had a musical number for the cameras.
It was literally like a Pirates of the Caribbean,
because there's 20-some journalists there all filming.
So at the end of this, there's your little firefight.
You get your 20 minutes of the Iraqi army shooting at ISIS footage.
Then we do a song and a dance,
and then we get you back on the bus.
And you're saying, I can't wait to break away from that.
Show me the real Tijuana.
That's what you're saying.
This is kind of what's going on.
Okay, so have you seen the fucking beheading videos?
What happens to journalists that...
If you're dead, you don't know you're dead,
so why does it matter?
You know while you're being beheaded,
it takes a long time.
They just use a knife.
I put together a video for Cracked before we went out there,
that was just about ISIS propaganda.
So I had to watch all of their beheading videos,
and it was like, yeah, that's a little bit intimidating,
but at the same time, you're way likelier to get killed in an airstrike,
just because one of them misses the target.
So that's comforting, kind of.
Yeah.
I did have a brief feeling.
I remember Easter Sunday, you guys were probably over there.
It was like, just because this is how...
What's his face from North Korea unveiled his nuclear missiles,
and it was Easter Sunday, and we went to a barbecue,
and all hipsters had to talk about was the idea of
what if a nuclear missile landed on Los Angeles and blew us all up,
and we definitely all agreed that that would be a way better way to go
than what would happen if North Korea wasn't in the picture,
and Trump just had his run, you know,
because the latter would be like,
oh, I'm gonna have to eat a foot.
Yeah.
It may or may not be my own.
I have to swing someone else's daughter as a weapon.
You want to slow cook foot.
That's the real key with a foot,
is you don't want to try too fast to cook that,
because you want to let...
You've got to peel off the cows.
So those guys took you through there, and they're like...
So what's their agenda?
You're American journalists, and they want you to say what?
What do they want you to say?
What do you mean?
Well, if they're staging that stuff...
Hillary Clinton started ISIS.
A lot of people think that.
Wait, so I say it again, Magenta.
A big popular belief is that Hillary Clinton started ISIS.
Wait, so there's nobody over there that's like,
well, if we show you this and that, you'll write that.
No.
The Iraqi army guys want you to say
that the Iraqi army is winning the battle against ISIS,
and they're good dudes.
Most of the guys we met are nice dudes.
I have nothing against...
I was really impressed with a lot of them.
But they want you...
You get the same thing, whether you're talking to the Kurdish Peshmerger,
which are these ancestral mountain warriors of the Kurds,
or whether you're talking about the Iraqi army,
or the Iraqi federal police, which are basically an army unit.
They all are like, we love America.
We're just trying to stop the bad guys.
Please send us more weapons.
But don't you get...
I recently found out there's three women on the Supreme Court,
and I had made a joke about there being only one.
Did you graduate?
Do you have a 200 IQ?
Don't you worry about going...
That's another reason I wouldn't go to the Middle East,
because I'd be like, I can't point to where we are on a map,
and I don't know anything about anything.
That's how you learn.
Two college dropouts right here.
You learn by just being plunged into it?
Yeah, guys.
You went over there, and you're like, we'll figure it out.
Yeah, well, that's the same.
It's like what Rick says in the first episode of Rick and Morty.
It's just like that.
You throw yourself into situations that you don't fully understand,
and then you grow as a person because you figure it out, or you don't.
I know, but you could have gone to Barna, man.
But you went to, like, Burning if the shit is on fire.
Bomb the fuck out, man.
Let's see another one.
You guys should see the song and dance routine they do at the end of this one.
It has dancing or something in there.
This is when they were...
Yeah, the dance number.
He gives a little speech first.
We probably don't need to go through the speech.
It's mostly about how they're sweet.
You want to pay attention, because we're going to see this guy again
with another clip to this dude.
This is going to be great for all the listeners.
Is that guy have a pencil mustache?
No, they can't have beards, so they really get crazy.
The guys that had to shave their beards get big on the mustaches.
They're not allowed to have beards?
They didn't, because they look like ISIS.
Yeah, I got a lot of shit.
By the way, they thought he was ISIS every checkpoint.
They would be putting their hands on their guns, being like,
Dush, Dush, and it's going to be a while before the beard recovers in Iraq.
The beard is pretty tough there.
The anti-silver lake over there.
So this guy is the colonel who's in charge of that position,
and his job is like, in the evenings and the afternoon,
he kills ISIS guys, and in the morning, he leads journalists on a tour.
And that dude behind him is like, you can watch his face during this,
because it's really interesting.
He's like the guy who keeps everyone alive when they're running around.
He was always, whenever people were shooting at us or near shooting at us,
that dude always had his body between magenta and the bullets.
He's a really cool dude.
Aya de Dickboarding.
He's flaming him.
The ISIS people are je  aiz has came now.
He never afathled for it again.
He just faded away.
I dint those two rzeczy.
Honestly, he's saying
Poultah!
We can play football now?
Can we start?
What the fuck was that you said you dropped out and everybody applauded then you're like
oh he's saying that a thermal gang grenade is what the fuck what do you know you're smart
you're worldly you speak the other languages not mostly just badly it takes it takes a
lot to be you and so we all are allowed to not be you of course I mean nobody trusts
me with a budget Dan so what did that guy look like what character do you look like
he looked like flea which one the little dance the lead guy looked like old flea oh from
him did you pick up did you pick up no we had it in translator who gave me the gist
of that I speak a little bit of Kurdish but I my Arabic is terrible I know like eight words
it's bad I would I would I would I would get off a plane over there and I would be afraid
to use the word Arabic because I would be I would I would assume from what I've lived
through I would someone go Arabic rude and I'd be like I don't know I don't know you
would you would you would be you'd be off the plane like ten minutes before someone
was like oh this guy clearly needs help I speak English come with me you want to crash
and then I'd be like is he gonna rate me he's gonna rate me he wouldn't rape you I went
to Fiji and I couldn't fucking relax like I told the story of this thing it was like
there was a pool guy that was like come do this fucking low-grade ayahuasca with me
in my family's village and I spent the entire car ride going they're gonna rape us but
they didn't because everything different is a threat but okay so that's that's that's
like the thing that separates like before we ever went to a war zone we traveled a lot
in parts of the world we're like we had experiences we're like you're in the car with the people
that you don't really understand they're like oh is something bad gonna happen is this like
the first 15 minutes of an Eli Roth movie and then we all get cut to pieces like it's
something terrible and it doesn't always but when it doesn't happen five or six times
in a row you're like thinking about that is like you are out doesn't exist but he does
yeah but he's just he's just a mediocre director no but that yeah it doesn't matter he's he's
probably not that gifted a writer I don't think he'd disagree with that right his stories
largely have a first act of I'm so glad we're getting onto this subject that guy yeah I want
to know what do we what do we need to know that we don't know like what do you see over
there that we might be getting the bullshit story on here's the thing that I do want to
make sure I talk about because I don't want to get off of it there's an anarchist feminist
militia that are the people who are actually beating ISIS in Syria right now when when
we not surprised when you hear about them on the news you'll hear like the United States
government has increased its aid to the SDF the Syrian Democratic Forces 70 ish percent
of the Syrian Democratic Forces are a group called the YPG the People's Protection Units
the YPG and their sister unit literally sister unit the YPG which is the female People's
Protection Units okay they are when we went to Iraq the first time we started touring
all these refugee camps where there were a bunch of Yazidis survivors of the genocide
ISIS carried out so these are people like I was asking about like oh hey America this
is the only time that the US intervened in a timely manner to help stop a genocide like
ever like ISIS started killing these people and we sent in air strikes and I expected
them to be like yeah we're really grateful to the United States for stopping ISIS none
of them had that to say they were like no it was the YPG so what happened is during when
ISIS was on the move and they were expanding in Iraq and expanding in Syria and everybody
was running away the Iraqi army was fleeing from them the Kurdish military was fleeing
from them all the different Syrian militias were fleeing from and they were they were
just growing unchecked like a giant fucking tumor in the middle of all that they're mass
occurring the members of this religious sect in Iraq called the Yazidis who live in Mount
Sinjar and the YPG who is again a feminist anarchist militia here's that that's happening
this is happening they're fighting their own desperate battle against ISIS and getting
pushed back and they divert divert forces from this battle for survival to invade Iraq
divert you fucking idiot he doesn't even know words this motherfucker just gave away
to plot a wander woman so but so these guys these guys and ladies punch a hole in ISIS's
lines in Iraq rescue tens of thousands of people avert a genocide and then leave forces
behind to train a militia and the only complaint that we heard the people we talked to there
make about them is that the Yazidis are a very traditional like traditional in the sense
that they don't let women do a lot and they were like well they wouldn't they forced our
women to learn how to fight they gave them guns and we didn't want them to give our
ladies guns and now our women have guns and it's it's frustrating to us that sounds like
a like an indie movie they're like well you know it is what it is I this is going to sound
like a really loaded liberal question but do you think the reason we're not aware of
that very very marketable phenomenon that would make a really compelling story is you
know do you think that's being filtered out do you think that's a threat to the first
world the idea that women and the men who support them not in a chivalrous way but in
a fucking like like fuck it way like that that will be the solution like that that's
the last thing anyone wants to hear there's a lot to be scared of in that because like
when when Rojava is one of the names you'll find them under they don't go by Rojava anymore
they're not a state it's like a democratic it's democracy without a state is the way
you'll hear it described a lot it's a weird system of government that's based around like
one of the things they do is they elect a man and a woman simultaneously to every political
position and they have to come to an accord before anything can get decided so it's like
it is actually a perfect 5050 representation and in some of these towns when they took
over from the Syrian government and they were like hey ladies like we have female organizations
for lady journalists we have female military units like we have female farming collectives
like you're free to have a job and do whatever you want participate in politics now there
were some areas where the divorce rate went to like 50% from almost nothing like half women
they're just left their husbands like oh shit I can go do stuff now well fuck this noise
like I'm gonna go do shit so yeah there's definitely an element of it that's it it's
a threat and there is a reason that you only hear to them referred to as the SDF rather
than a feminist anarchist militia who's rabidly against the idea of states yeah bad ass it's
bad ass I wanted to make sure I got in my crazy left wing street I mean there was one
question is there any pressure from your employers the media to show the Middle East and the
specific different light than you observe but I think that's I mean you're a freelancer
I mean no I'm salaried with cracked but they don't pay for us to go we just buy plane tickets
they're like if you can find a bit I thought I don't know what's wrong with my tweet deck
I thought I saw some shit that was like you know what tweet tweet deck I'm sweet dick but
I always hear that I set up a little filter for the hashtag thing but just what do you
got anything we should know that we don't already know so much to know me give me your
top one as quickly as you possibly can I mean there's this one weird moment no no no god
damn it I am at a podium with a microphone and I asked you a question okay I just got
one thing to say for everyone here do all the shit that you just like talk about and
then you put it off you don't do it and it's just a fantasy just do it because that's what
I did that's what we're doing just do the shit that you wanted to do and it sounds silly
just worked away I was worth the weight I knew you had it in you girl I knew you had
it in you we still want to know though I still want to know as a as a person who has who
is three weeks into having decided to get back on the elliptical I still want to understand
what it is that put me on it in the first place because I know once I was on it I wanted
to stay on it and I know once I got off it it got easy to stay off it but I'm trying
to isolate that moment so that we can bottle it put it in a little pill that's like take
action because we all know this like we hear it all the time in our own heads and we hear
it from the people we admire that they're like hey that thing that you want to do just
do it and it's like how you scared the first time you like wrote up a pilot or wrote with
the first thing that you wrote that you submitted to somebody you respected yeah I had a chance
to turn it down it's almost like that the path that led me to where I am ego ego ego
like I was too fucking dumb to know how untalented I was well there you go great okay I played
a lot of D&D and watch Indiana Jones movies as a kid so that was that was everything I
mean it's like it's like okay yeah but it's like it's it's it's something seems scary
to someone or even beyond scary if it just seems like this isn't the time to do that
I get fucking gotta go to work at Starbucks yeah I gotta go work or I gotta I gotta or
it just yeah it's like I got to do shit yesterday and I gotta do shit tomorrow if I even have
a time to think right now then I owe it to myself to just sit here and think what in
that moment like yeah yeah I'm gonna answer my own question my fucking therapist answered
it it's like this never leads anywhere thought doesn't lead to action only action leads to
action you said it yourself you just have to do it even though it doesn't it vexes us
because we're addicted to thought we have a luxury we have we're addicted to safety as
well we're addicted to just like we have the luxury of going that's what we do we're on
King's Landing so we go we can't we can make a difference when we go I'd like that funding
to go over here and we mistake that for meaning that as individuals it's okay for us to go
well I've decided I'm a vegan or I've decided I'm left but right of this it's words and
it's thoughts whereas the things that everybody in this room knows that all the shit that
changed them is shit that they just did we have so much support like if you're homeless
in America you're still gonna have clean water you're still gonna find a toilet you're not
gonna starve like you're in America so rely on the community or the culture that we don't
have and miss that week of work even if you get fired to pursue what you want to do because
you're still at the end of the day gonna have a clean place to shit and at least you're
a step closer to trying something different you're gonna have a clean place to shit no
matter what you're in America it's fine just try some shit I can definitely but to the
extent that logic is employed there I can twist that into like okay yeah so I should
stay put and like I'm doing great yeah you are you are doing great so I'm not gonna do
anything different tomorrow because even if I'm homeless I can shit in a clean no one
makes you happy fuck you guys don't high road me no one's telling me to do anything
different we all want season four the bottom line is yeah like there it is how you met
Joel I was I move what what I because I moved you just fucking did it you moved I was dropped
it and I hitched to ride on his U-Haul I've taught you guys I'm golem like I like a ring
fell near me and I was like this is precious and then one day it fell away with no matter
where it fought that's when I move I go well this is less precious I want the precious
back like that's all I've ever done that's all I do okay you got it well who doesn't
that describe that doesn't describe you you fucking yeah well it's a whole planet of
golem that's the whole that's not golem when you go to the Middle East golem never goes
to the Middle East I mean there's kids that are starving and then you go have some fancy
fucking meal at night every night when you're out there like a shit head doing that you're
just doubling down on the golem would never do that you'd be like no those kids make me
uncomfortable I'm gonna go eat fish in a cave those kids don't have any fish Dan the golem
doesn't care he doesn't want to think about that he wants his precious to think about
it we all want our precious no you want photo journalism yeah but that's not feeding the
kids that you see over there that's not bad is that place that golems in the middle earth
that's just the goblins mountain golem the worst place is that golem hangs out and mortar
because that's where he found a comfortable place all right look let's Annie let's just
accept that we're all we're all equidistant from transformative human evolution so you
guys really aren't that much better than me well why is there not there's real see what
about this and I learned earlier I'm just like John Sweden because I don't make a community
movie I'm fucking nailing it no sorry I it's not like skydivers are better you're not like
yelling at skydivers are you just like that's what gets them off I silently judge skydivers
I do well why because they needlessly risk death in a world where life is precious that's
where I find them atrocious people well nobody needs us but you go on roller coasters yeah
at least I don't I do it so that my friends don't judge me I'm judging you can I say
something man I think one thing is that it's about bravery a little bit it's a kind of
about doing good work you know that's what they're doing that's what I know you aspire
to do that's like kind of part of your problem is you want to be good at what you do to be
glorified well maybe but you also really like know it's edifying for people I mean these
guys are watching your shows when they're in a dangerous place I'm recognizing that I
do good work yeah I feel glorious okay well that's all I got what I mean I how many writers
do you think say they do it to be glorified you're right I am special yeah thank you Spencer
I owe it to the world to share my worldview well it's I think I think it's about time
for us to wrap up I thank you guys so much for coming in here and thank you Ivan is Ivan
still here and thank you Joel for yeah Joel at one time went to the Iraq of making his
own fucking TV show where he sat with the fucking robots and made fun of movies like
that was not a runway laid out for you that was that was brave yeah I don't have the problem
I know I'm a hero you get to plug anything in a bravery I have to be shameless Brandon
and I have a podcast starting on August 16th what it's called cracked gets personal we talk
about doctors talking about stories of people shoving stuff up their butts really live people
who killed people all sorts of great stuff it's gonna be it's gonna be great it sounds
like it's not on a feral audio so you should be aware that it probably it's not funds ISIS
it does fund ISIS and we have a documentary on Indie go-go the fixers there's a bunch
of there's a trailer up right now and a bunch of footage if you want to donate I'll smile
at you in my soul but not in person probably because I will not know who does that I remember
Sarah Hill's name she she helps us with the show I always forget to thank her Chris Peruf
thank you but I also want to thank the Kickstarter supporters that came here from from the thing
that we were at that helped the MST thing because the MST Kickstarter backers are in
the house did we did we start some shit for you by talking about Indie go-go no is that
gonna start a problem yeah we're Kickstarter people no no that's I served no one I not
even myself I'd be rich by now I shit my me undies I tell you something I quit watching
cartoons because I thought they were all shitty and then I saw Rick and Morty oh thank you
cartoons are shitty Joel Joel came up to me at the top of the dinner tonight and told
me he loves Rick and Morty I deserved it I mean I was kind of burping while I said that
I know it's Rick and Morty man I've been to the I've watched the season and a half see
I did it right there are you gonna get mad because I said it's half not half I I I I've
somehow feel like I'm landed in a in a cage right I have to I have to end the show with
a wrap with the wrap yes yes and you have so much Middle East to talk about I don't
think they're ready what do you mean I don't think they're ready are you guys ready talking
about me don't do it man a b c d e f g h I'm gonna fuck your mama so hard she thinks
my dick's a rake gonna take the leaves from the front yard gonna go like a glass shard
gonna be jagged pointy cut edges I fucked your mom like my name was Benson and Hedges
it's a company that makes cigarettes not shakes contact lenses wait what cigarette's not shakes
no more fucking mama's Middle East Lamas Iraq is here Saudi Arabia fuck your mama's
lady that's all right Dan it happens sometimes such people understand yo Brandon you're looking
pretty down take me to Rap Town Rap Town was great but Armand Town was better it's tropical
be warm no need for fucking sweaters every one is high not just talking about looks I
wanted to jump in cuz your energy excited me just don't think flow go down to the river
give her she's not a tanker I'm booking a shiver with my hero in a quiver gonna take
me so right be that's what we are we fucking dance until dances like a baby but maybe that's
what you need oh shit baby dance baby dance take a chance he just shit his pants baby
dance baby dance he shit the meat on these he didn't make no plans baby dance baby dance
why isn't he out of breath because he exercised six months ago catching up to me now though
I'm gonna make the planet Earth sing I'm gonna share my knowledge here we go catch up mustard
salt pepper your skin like leper don't know one two three five lumber I gotta get out
of my head just give me a second don't don't preconceive just let me empty my head no words
in my head just hold on someone with an empty head wouldn't say empty just don't fucking
judge art I'm trying to do something real and you're you're waiting we're like why
isn't it sound like Will Smith because it's not packaged for you because what you're
experiencing is real this is the shit that ends up in a Will Smith song called art give
me a second stop judging we should try it it's just oranges and veggies what are we
worried about are we not ready what if refined flour and sugars cause boogers what if caveman
had it right what if everything dietarily was learned the night we discovered to take
two sticks and turn them into flame what if Michael Douglas knew it was a game what if
Sean Penn was wrong what if that movie only took place in a song sung by Vishnu oh I wish
you knew that reference but you didn't stay in Indian high school didn't mean to judge
just want to dance and budge eat and fudge and sugar and my blood cholesterol is too
high no more fun it's wabbit season salt and pepper two kinds of seasons also summer and
fall fuck your mama till she was less tall okay let's thank our guests and Brandon and
Joel Hodgson thank you Kris Boruff Steve Levy Zac McKeever Sarah Hill who's your bartender
I think he gives you drinks and they're free right now so probably too late to tip them
I think we'll be back next week go to the Middle East
did you get any of that it's a good a show
say oh